part to your question is basically can
Chiangmai nail become a positive thing
now the Harley has quit right because he
quit his own festival and apparently Sam
is going to try to take it over no I
absolutely morally opposed doing this in
Thailand
and that is yen okay so this is really
kind of a two-part question apart one I
want to say this again I said this many
many times part one is really implicitly
asking me do I see anything positive in
Durham Reuters channel or his legacy and
in the past this is a problem like more
than a year ago but many many times I
did say look I also do see some good
things about Harley and freelee's
channels now what I see is different
from what you see the main thing I would
give like freely credit for to start
with freely I really appreciated the few
videos were freely was just talking
about her life and keeping it all the
way real so way back in the day freely
used to make videos talking about what
it was like to be a waitress do you
remember that like just talking about
like jobs she did what it was like to
work in a bar was like to be a waitress
just real life stuff real talk and I
don't I think she was on percent honest
those videos I don't know I have no way
to check but they just seemed like
really on especial at that side of what
freely does I I do respect and I've said
that mate I'm saying again now right now
with Harley the problem is he lies about
so much in his own life and other people
that now I don't really know if I
couldn't say that about him you know I
mean I don't really know if I can give
him credit that way because what's been
revealed like you go through it step by
step and he's just lying about
everything
even like really minor trivial things we
wouldn't think a person would lie about
it so in the past though I would have
said the same about Harley like in as
much as he's just talking about what's
real okay so that's part one part to
your question is basically can Chang my
nail become a positive thing now that
Harley has quit right because he he quit
his own festival and apparently Sam is
going to try to take it over you know
and it's important to note by the way
Harley didn't come up with this idea
that before Harley and Frehley started
their festival in Thailand there already
was to Chiangmai winter fruit festival a
that existed first so Harley and freely
they did jump on a scene some other
people already created so they decided
roughly six months later there'd be a
winter fruit festival and they'd have
the separate Thai fruit festival in the
summer basically so they didn't start
this from a blank sheet of paper there
already was a scene there there already
were people at an annual festival and
it's resident that's still going on
every winter the tide winter fruit
festival um honestly no and I'll tell
you why it's because I really care about
politics I have a background in
political science I am not free to talk
about Thai politics right now I'm living
in China I am under real constraint of
censorship and I'm going back and forth
to Thailand
anyone who's living in Thailand I've
said this in different videos in
different ways I would urge you to just
take the time to read the newspaper in
English while you're in Chiang Mai and
yeah I use Wikipedia or something look
up things you don't know or don't
understand the newspapers are censored
by the government there but if you read
between the lines you know there's
really a lot worth knowing and for me
one of the funny ironies when I was in
Chiang Mai for the court case I was only
there for a couple of days I bought one
newspaper in English but you know Harley
has said repeatedly oh nobody ever goes
to jail for a Facebook comment and in
this one newspaper there were three
different cases being discussed of
people being in jail right now in
Thailand for Facebook comments you know
in terms of the political context all
right so if you ask me can we have a
vegan festival in Iraq I'd say well you
know that's that's really politically
loaded okay if you ask me can we have a
vegan festival in South Africa maybe
South Africa is fabulous fruit the
greatest fresh fruit in the world
honestly is probably South Africa okay
that's five it was true farming
tradition okay well that's a difficult
decision to make
if you ask me can we right now 2017 2018
2019 is Thailand the place to do that my
answer is absolutely not because I care
about human rights I care about the
difference between a dictatorship and a
democracy I really care about what has
gone disastrously wrong in Thailand over
these last few years the same years that
they've been doing the type
festival and I still don't know a single
person there who has any interest any
engagement any sense of moral
responsibility including the people who
live there permanently so you know what
the is your excuse guys you don't
you guys living in shame I've asked that
many times and this comes back to me
your question well you know do I call
these people scumbags individually one
on one yes some of them I do regardless
comebacks
what's my I know if I asked you mean
don't answer but if I asked you what is
your opinion really about a guy like Joe
best you know he is what he is isn't it
to me
a lot of these people I don't what is
your real opinion about vegan Ava no I
don't have a - tell you about them on
one-on-one basis but more broadly
speaking there's a difference between
being awake and being asleep if you
choose to live in Haiti after the
earthquake there's a disaster
governments falling apart sighs blood
for what the is the meaning of life
for you if you just say yeah well
there's still a beautiful beach Haiti
does have beautiful beaches but there's
a political context as a social context
you've got to care about South Africa
Egypt anywhere you're going to choose
but right now ethically politically no I
absolutely morally opposed doing this in
Thailand I defy you you guys go find a
single video from any of the people
living in Chiangmai whether they live in
there long term for several months a
year or living there permanently because
they're several people been there for
years and find anything facing up to the
reality of the disaster that it has been
Thai politics during these years and
that is all I can say about that I am
not at liberty to talk about the
politics we do that right now when I go
back to Canada I may be yeah okay so the
question is are you putting yourself at
risk but being in Thailand well you know
II like if we're talking about apartheid
in South Africa decades ago when I was a
child you know Department as I've had
this terrible situation how are you
going to feel being on vacation in a
country we know there's this horrible
political system and political prisoners
in jail and so on how are you going to
feel about that so the Africa still had
beautiful beaches and a lot of people
went from Europe to South Africa to go
vacation on the beaches knowing that's
the political context outside I think
you got to feel some sense of
responsibility as a tourist or you say
in Thailand you're you're one of the
safest people in Thailand but if you
just open up the newspaper and read
about University Professors going to
prison for daring to question the
government sons in a very minor way
daring a question criticized the
government that's in the newspaper that
it's not secret information those are
those are front page news in English you
don't even need to speak Thai you don't
even need to listen to the radio and
Thai if you care just a little bit about
human rights and democracy I think you
would feel some sense of responsibility
whether or not you're safe on the beach
and and you should feel some sense
responsibility right so your point so in
Australia there are also serious moral
problems of course but it is also true
that in Australia freedom of the press
free speech if I don't know do you have
university professors and newspaper
journalists going to prison for daring
to criticize the governor yet I think
either no or extremely rarely you know
and you have elections you know yeah
those are those are important
differences but sure but you said
something interesting you said you can't
really expect people to you know take
responsibilities things okay so who are
the people if you want to just hang out
with drug addicts and sex tourists it's
a lot of that nature you know people are
just there to get stoned filled with
this they're to get laid as vegans
organising a vegan movement we're
supposed to be better than that right
we're supposed to have a higher standard
now we can debate how high the standard
is but the whole point originally is
that we're saving the planet we're
trying to save the world right there's
nothing ethical and ecological and
animal rights on the other stuff so if
now look if you just want to get stoned
and get laid maybe it makes no
difference to you if you're in the
middle of a war zone in the middle of a
civil war you're in the middle of a
dictatorship or what-have-you but we set
for ourselves this higher standard so in
that context I don't think it's sincere
to say what you can't expect people to
care about this if you're going to chain
my to save the planet you know I think
those are questions we got ask
yourselves and the questions that on my
channel I asked other people and then me
asking those questions had a really
positive impact on people yeah
overall look I asked myself these
questions - I've been talking to my
girlfriend
seriously about enrolling in school for
cuisine you know to be able to be a
vegan chef to some standard do something
in the food industry about veganism
lifestyle is an aspect of what veganism
is but you know it's not the whole
package and I've had to ask myself all
kinds of difficult questions about about
moral and ethical compromises living in
communist countries living in
dictatorships I lived through the period
in Thailand when they made a transition
from democracy to dictatorship and so on
I have also had asked myself those those
tough questions so now I'm not claiming
on perfect but on the other hand the
fact that you're the fact that you eat a
vegan diet or promote healthy exercise
doesn't make those questions irrelevant
you know be tormented about it if you
know if you have mixed feelings about it
go on examine that look into it you know
but I know I just the vast majorities
people who I know through YouTube but
some of them talk to you on skype or
that messages back and forth the vast
majority of people they have never even
read a single Wikipedia article about
the political situation in Thailand and
it's not too much to ask it's not too
much to ask to say hey you should care
about us yen